#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article-algo
\begin_preamble
\algolang{french}
\algoption{noend}
\keycomment{\#<}{>\#}
\end_preamble
\language default
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Extended use of the Algorithm-Style
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

The purpose of this small file is to test the options and commands that
 can be used in the preamble.
 In the document, we cumulate the three available options:
\layout Itemize

use of noend,
\layout Itemize

specify a language (only french available),
\layout Itemize

redefine the comments delimiters, set to #< and >#
\layout Standard

Moreover, this file checks if some particular features are supported.
 The tested features are:
\layout Itemize

use of a very long extra parameter, followed by a comment.
\layout Itemize

use of a very long state item, followed by a comment.
\layout Itemize

use of a very long comment after an endif item.
\layout Itemize

use of a caption at the top of the algorithm float.
\layout Section

Examples
\layout Subsection

Comments, long extra parameter, long state line
\layout Standard

The following algorithm is a small example that should work.
\layout Algorithm (num)

si something is true.
 The method to decide wether it is true or not is not very easy.
 You sould refer to the related section to see how it is managed.#<This is
 the test comment, but the test is enough long, and there is nothing more
 to say.># 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Algorithm (num)

* action 1
\end_deeper 
\layout Algorithm (num)

sinon
\begin_deeper 
\layout Algorithm (num)

* action 2
\layout Algorithm (num)

* action 3 #<comment here>#
\layout Algorithm (num)

* action that is quite difficult to explain.
 The explaination wil take several lines in order to show that long state
 items are allowed.
 For instance the following formula: 
\begin_inset Formula \( \frac{\sqrt{\cos (\delta )}}{\sin (\beta )} \)
\end_inset 

 is needed to explain some things here.#<something to say as extra comment?>#
\layout Algorithm (num)

* another action.
\end_deeper 
\layout Algorithm (num)

finsi #<a comment here could be usefull.
 Let's do it very long to see whether it is well managed.
 At the end of this test something should be done to continue...
 The problem is that 
\series bold 
fin si
\series default 
 will not appear because of the noend option.>#
\layout Subsection

Caption at the top
\layout Standard

The algorithm 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{alg:top-caption}

\end_inset 

 should work too.
\layout Standard

\begin_float alg 
\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{alg:top-caption}

\end_inset 

basic algorithm
\layout Algorithm (num)

si it is true
\begin_deeper 
\layout Algorithm (num)

* do something
\end_deeper 
\layout Algorithm (num)

finsi
\end_float 
\the_end
