#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\def\mailto#1{ \href{mailto:#1}{<#1>}}
\end_preamble
\language default
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Algorithm-Style Package Install and Use
\newline 

\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This package contains files that provide a new textclass and an article
 layout example that allow to use the algorithm and algorithmic packages
 directly through LyX without writing latex commands (ERT).
 The package is to install under your local LyX configuration directory,
 and LyX must be reconfigured to make the new layout available.
\newline 

\layout Section

Package content
\layout Standard

The package algo-<version>, where <version> is the current version number,
 contains the following files:
\layout Description

algorithm.inc: algorithm textclass definition, that must be included in any
 .layout file that needs this text style.
\layout Description

algolyx.sty: the latex package providing the necessary commands.
\layout Description

article-algo.layout: document class layout example, taken from the standard
 article layout, that includes the algorithm.inc definition file to make
 the new algorithm textclass available.
\layout Description

algo.lyx: document that describes how to use the new algorithm textclass,
 and is at the same time an example of document using the article-algo layout.
 Thus, this document should be viewed once the package is installed.
\layout Description

algo.{tex,
\protected_separator 
ps}: algo.lyx latex or postscript output, for those who are interested in
 reading the document before or without installing the package.
\layout Description

lang/: directory containing LyX/ps documents examples using the algorithm
 style in other languages than english.
 
\layout Description

examples/: directory containing LyX/ps documents examples using some algorithm
 layout options.
\newline 

\layout Section

Installing the package
\layout Standard

To install the package, do as following:
\layout Enumerate

Gunzip and untar the package under the directory you want:
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

> gunzip -c algo<version>.tar.gz | tar xvf -
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Copy the textclass definition (.inc) and the document class layout example
 (.layout) under your local LyX configuration layout directory, that usually
 is 
\family typewriter 
$HOME/.lyx/layouts
\family default 
.
 Check under lyx (
\family sans 
\bar under 
H
\bar default 
elp
\family typewriter 
->
\family sans 
\bar under 
V
\bar default 
ersion
\family default 
) your actual user directory.
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

> cd algo-<version> 
\newline 
> cp algorithm.inc article-algo.layout $HOME/.lyx/layouts
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Install 
\family typewriter 
algolyx.sty
\family default 
 such that its path is seen by LaTeX.
 You can do as follow:
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

> mkdir $HOME/.lyx/layouts/packages 
\newline 
> cp algolyx.sty $HOME/.lyx/layouts/packages 
\newline 
> export TEXINPUTS=:/$HOME/.lyx/layouts/packages//
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Run LyX and reconfigure it using 
\family sans 
\bar under 
O
\bar default 
ptions
\family typewriter 
->
\family sans 
\bar under 
R
\bar default 
econfigure.
\layout Enumerate

Exit from LyX, and run it again.
 Once loaded, the new document class 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Article (algo)
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 should be listed in the 
\family sans 
\bar under 
L
\bar default 
ayout
\family typewriter 
->
\family sans 
\bar under 
D
\bar default 
ocument
\family default 
 popup, and if so the install is successfully done.
\newline 

\layout Section

Using the algorithm textclass
\layout Standard

The algo.lyx (or algo.tex,ps) document describes how to use the layout.
\newline 

\layout Section

Thanks
\layout Standard

Thanks to the users, for their advice, comments, bug reports.
 And a special thanks to Herbert Voss for his help!
\newline 

\layout Section

Feedback
\layout Standard

Please give your comments! It is the only way to efficiently improve the
 textclass and fix the bugs.
 You can send e-mail to 
\newline 

\latex latex 

\backslash 
mailto{nicolas.marsgui@libertysurf.fr}
\latex default 
.
\the_end
